NMS-13073: BsfDetector documentation (#3505)
OpenNMS/opennms: docs/modules/operation/pages/provisioning/detectors/BsfDetector.adoc

| `bsfEngine`      | The BSF engine to use when running the script. Choices:

* `bsh.util.BeanShellBSFEngine`
* `org.codehaus.groovy.bsf.GroovyEngine`
* `org.apache.bsf.engines.jython.JythonEngine`                                                                                | optional | 
| `fileExtensions` | A comma-separated list of file extensions to consider a valid script for this BSF instance.            | optional | 
| `runType`        | Mode to run the BSF script. Choices:

* `eval` - expects the script to print the OK/NOK status for validation
* `exec` - expects the script to manipulate the provided results hashmap directly                                           | optional | `eval`
|===

CAUTION: Avoid non-character names for parameters to avoid problems in the script languages.

== Timeout and Retry

The BSFDetector does not perform any timeout or retry processing on its own.
If you require retry and/or timeout behavior, you must implement it in the script itself.

== Requirements for the script (run-types)

Depending on the `run-type`, the script must provide its results in different ways.

> For minimal scripts with very simple logic, `run-type` `eval` is the simple option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For minimal scripts with simple logic, a `run-type` of `eval` is the easiest option.
```

> Scripts running in `eval` mode must return a string matching one of the `status codes`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scripts running in `eval` mode must return a string matching a status code of `OK` or `NOK`.
```

If your script is more than one line, `run-type` `exec` is required.
Scripts running in `exec` mode need not return anything, but they have to add a `status` entry with a `status code` to the _results_ object.

> Additionally, the _results_ object can also carry a "reason":"message" entry that is used in non `OK` states.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, the _results_ object can also carry a `"reason":"message"` entry that is used in non `OK` states.
```

== Commonly used language settings

> The BSF detector supports many languages. The following table provides the required setup for commonly used languages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The BSF detector supports many languages.
The following table provides the required setup for commonly used languages.
```

.BSF language setups
[options="header, %autowidth"]
|===
| Language                            | lang-class  | bsf-engine                                    | required library

> | http://www.beanshell.org[BeanShell] | beanshell | `bsh.util.BeanShellBSFEngine`                 | supported by default

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| http://www.beanshell.org[BeanShell] | beanshell   | `bsh.util.BeanShellBSFEngine`                 | supported by default
```

| http://groovy.codehaus.org[Groovy]  | groovy  | `org.codehaus.groovy.bsf.GroovyEngine`        | +groovy-all-[version].jar+

> | http://www.jython.org[Jython]       | jython   | `org.apache.bsf.engines.jython.JythonEngine`  | +jython-[version].jar+

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| http://www.jython.org[Jython]       | jython      | `org.apache.bsf.engines.jython.JythonEngine`  | `jython-[version].jar`
```

[source, java]
----
def testFile = new File("/tmp/TestFile");
if (testFile.exists()) {
  results.put("status", "OK")
} else {
  results.put("reason", "file does not exist");
  results.put("status", "NOK");
}
----

=== Jython example 

The Jython (Java implementation of Python) language requires an additional library.
Copy a compatible `jython-x.y.z.jar` into the `opennms/lib` folder and restart {page-component-title} to make Jython available for the BSF Detector.

.Jython example for `run-type` `exec`
[source, xml]
----
<detector name="MinimalJython" class="org.opennms.netmgt.provision.detector.bsf.BSFDetector">
    <parameter key="bsfEngine" value="org.apache.bsf.engines.jython.JythonEngine"/>
    <parameter key="langClass" value="jython"/>
    <parameter key="fileName" value="/opt/opennms/etc/scripts/MinimalJython.py"/>
    <parameter key="runType" value="exec"/>
</detector>
----

.Jython example `MinimalJython.py` script file for `run-type` `exec`
[source, python]
----
from java.io import File

if (File("/tmp/TestFile").exists()):
        results.put("status", "OK")
else:
        results.put("reason", "file does not exist")
        results.put("status", "NOK")
----

> NOTE: We have to use `run-type` `exec` here because Jython chokes on the +import+ keyword in `eval` mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: We have to use a run type of `exec` here because Jython chokes on the **import** keyword in `eval` mode.
```

> = BSF Detector

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
= BSF detector
```

| `fileName`       | The path to the file on the OpenNMS server which contains the BSF-compatible script to run.            | optional |
| `langClass`      | The short name of the language the script is written in. Choices: `jython`, `beanshell`, `groovy`, etc.     | optional | 
| `bsfEngine`     a| The BSF engine to use when running the script. Choices:

* `bsh.util.BeanShellBSFEngine`
* `org.codehaus.groovy.bsf.GroovyEngine`
* `org.apache.bsf.engines.jython.JythonEngine`                                                                                | optional | 
| `fileExtensions` | A comma-separated list of file extensions to consider a valid script for this BSF instance.            | optional | 
| `runType`       a| Which way to run the BSF script. Choices:

* `eval` - expects the script to print the OK/NOK status for validation
* `exec` - expects the script to manipulate the provided results hashmap directly                                           | optional | `eval`
|===

CAUTION: Avoid non-character names for parameters to avoid problems in the script languages.

== Timeout and Retry

The BSFDetector does not perform any timeout or retry processing on its own.

> If retry and or timeout behavior is required, you must implement it in the script itself.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you require retry and/or timeout behavior, you must implement it in the script itself.
```

== Requirements for the script (run-types)

> Depending on the `run-type`, the script has to provide its results in different ways.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Depending on the `run-type`, the script must provide its results in different ways.
```

For minimal scripts with very simple logic, `run-type` `eval` is the simple option.

> Scripts running in `eval` mode have to return a string matching one of the `status codes`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Scripts running in `eval` mode must return a string matching one of the `status codes`.
```

> If your script is more than one line, `run-type` `exec` is required.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A script with more than one line, requires `run-type` `exec`.
```

Reviewer 2: Does it literally mean when my logic requires a script with more than "one line" I have to switch to run-type exec? Or is "one line" just a metaphor for very simple logic?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A script with more than one line of logic requires a `run-type` of `exec`.
```

Scripts running in `exec` mode need not return anything, but they have to add a `status` entry with a `status code` to the _results_ object.
Additionally, the _results_ object can also carry a "reason":"message" entry that is used in non `OK` states.

== Commonly used language settings

> The BSF detector supports many languages; the following table provides the required setup for commonly used languages.

Reviewer 3: test
```suggestion
The BSF detector supports many languages. The following table provides the required setup for commonly used languages.
```

.BSF language setups
[options="header, %autowidth"]
|===
| Language                            | lang-class  | bsf-engine                                    | required library
| http://www.beanshell.org[BeanShell] | beanshell | `bsh.util.BeanShellBSFEngine`                 | supported by default

> | http://groovy.codehaus.org[Groovy]  | groovy  | `org.codehaus.groovy.bsf.GroovyEngine`        | +groovy-all-[version].jar+

Reviewer 3: groovy link was broken. Suggest the following. Please verify. The GroovyEngine parameter is still valid according to their docs. 
```suggestion
| https://groovy-lang.org/[Groovy]  | groovy  | `org.codehaus.groovy.bsf.GroovyEngine`        | +groovy-all-[version].jar+
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| https://groovy-lang.org/[Groovy]    | groovy      | `org.codehaus.groovy.bsf.GroovyEngine`        | `groovy-all-[version].jar`
```

| http://www.jython.org[Jython]       | jython   | `org.apache.bsf.engines.jython.JythonEngine`  | +jython-[version].jar+
|===

> == Example Configurations

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
== Example configurations
```

> === BeanShell Example

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
=== BeanShell example
```

.BeanShell example
[source, xml]
----
<detector name="MinimalBeanShell" class="org.opennms.netmgt.provision.detector.bsf.BSFDetector">
    <parameter key="bsfEngine" value="bsh.util.BeanShellBSFEngine"/>
    <parameter key="langClass" value="beanshell"/>
    <parameter key="fileName" value="/opt/opennms/etc/scripts/MinimalBeanShell.bsh"/>
    <parameter key="runType" value="eval"/>
</detector>
----

.BeanShell example `MinimalBeanShell.bsh` script file
[source, java]
----
File testFile = new File("/tmp/TestFile");
if (testFile.exists()) {
  return "OK";
} else {
  results.put("reason", "file does not exist");
  return "NOK";
}
----

> === Groovy Example

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
=== Groovy example
```

    <parameter key="langClass" value="groovy"/>
    <parameter key="fileName" value="/opt/opennms/etc/scripts/MinimalGroovy.groovy"/>
    <parameter key="runType" value="eval"/>
</detector>
----

.Groovy example `MinimalGroovy.groovy` script file for `run-type` `eval`
[source, java]
----
File testFile = new File("/tmp/TestFile");
if (testFile.exists()) {
  return "OK";
} else {
  results.put("reason", "file does not exist");
  return "NOK";
}
----

.Groovy example for `run-type` `exec`
[source, xml]
----
<detector name="MinimalGroovy" class="org.opennms.netmgt.provision.detector.bsf.BSFDetector">
    <parameter key="bsfEngine" value="org.codehaus.groovy.bsf.GroovyEngine"/>
    <parameter key="langClass" value="groovy"/>
    <parameter key="fileName" value="/opt/opennms/etc/scripts/MinimalGroovy.groovy"/>
    <parameter key="runType" value="exec"/>
</detector>

----

.Groovy example `MinimalGroovy.groovy` script file for `run-type` `exec`
[source, java]
----
def testFile = new File("/tmp/TestFile");
if (testFile.exists()) {
  results.put("status", "OK")
} else {
  results.put("reason", "file does not exist");
  results.put("status", "NOK");
}
----

> === Example Jython

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
=== Jython example 
```

> To use the Jython (Java implementation of Python) language an additional library is required.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Jython (Java implementation of Python) language requires an additional library.
```

Copy a compatible `jython-x.y.z.jar` into the `opennms/lib` folder and restart {page-component-title}.
That makes Jython available for the BSF Detector.

.Jython example for `run-type` `exec`
[source, xml]
----
<detector name="MinimalJython" class="org.opennms.netmgt.provision.detector.bsf.BSFDetector">
    <parameter key="bsfEngine" value="org.apache.bsf.engines.jython.JythonEngine"/>
    <parameter key="langClass" value="jython"/>
    <parameter key="fileName" value="/opt/opennms/etc/scripts/MinimalJython.py"/>
    <parameter key="runType" value="exec"/>
</detector>
----

.Jython example `MinimalJython.py` script file for `run-type` `exec`
[source, python]
----
from java.io import File

if (File("/tmp/TestFile").exists()):
        results.put("status", "OK")
else:
        results.put("reason", "file does not exist")
        results.put("status", "NOK")
----

> NOTE: We have to use `run-type` `exec` here because Jython chokes on the +import+ keyword in `eval` mode.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
NOTE: We must use `run-type` `exec` here because Jython chokes on the +import+ keyword in `eval` mode.
```
Is there a better word than "chokes"? It's fine if it's the most accurate. Just curious.

Author: Maybe `disagrees`? :joy:

Reviewer 3: I think chokes is fine. :-)
